---
layout: post
title: Bloc &#58 My Experience...So Far
feature-img: "img/why_programming_pic.png"
---

When I chose to pursue a career in Software Development (again) my options for doing so were infinite. Traditional college,
online college, accelerated in-person bootcamps, online bootcamps and I could even choose to attempt to teach myself as many
successful developers have done before me. I desired an option that was thorough, schedule friendly, career focused and also
offered some means of mutual accountability…enter Bloc’s Full Stack development track. I ultimately chose Bloc to help me achieve
my goal of a successful career in software development due to three key reasons: in-depth curriculum, job offer guarantee,
mentorship program.

The curriculum, in my opinion, teaches you everything you need to know to be job-ready and trims the fat associated with your
typical 4 year degree experience. I reviewed the curriculum with several of my peers who either had a CS degree, a job in the
industry or both, each of whom had nothing but positive things to say about the roadmap laid out in the course guidelines.  Entry
level sociology course? No thank you. Pre-requisites? Nope. Bloc seemed to have one mission: Give our students what they need to
succeed and then get them a job. No fluff. I loved that.

Next, the job offer guarantee immediately caught my attention. Bloc promises, given that you satisfy a few requirements, to
help you secure a job offer within 90 days of completing your course or your money back. How amazing is that? They understand how
difficult finding a job can be at times and that is why they take this guarantee very seriously. Throughout the program there are
many career related assignments. Career assignments range from build a portfolio, to submitting applications, to contact mutual
connections on LinkedIn and everything in between. The job hunt does start when you complete your education, it starts when your
education starts.    

The only thing that my peers from the development industry revered more than the curriculum was the mentorship program. Bloc
provides you with up to 3 weekly meetings (depending on your selected pace) with an experienced professional who works in the
industry. He or she is there to help you navigate the peaks and valleys you will undoubtedly experience as you try to master a
constantly evolving skill that is coding. They are there to help you with anything from syntax issues to questions about what to
expect at your first programming job. I truly believe the mentorship program is invaluable and was a key factor in swaying my
decision.

I am extremely pleased with Bloc so far and the best part is that I am still so early into the experience. I am wrapping up the Frontend section, but that is truly only the beginning. I will venture into backend development and then into software engineer principles before I enter into an entire section dedicated to career preparation. I love the mentorship program, I love the set-up and I love the potential impact this experience can have on my career and thus my life. Stay tuned!
